#summary This page describes how to set up the developer environment for the new version of SNEE.

= Tools Installation =

 * Install a Subversion Client
  * http://subversion.tigris.org/

 * Install Maven
  * http://maven.apache.org/

 * Install Eclipse
  * http://www.eclipse.org/downloads

 * Install Eclipse Plugins
  * Subclipse (for SVN support)
    * http://subclipse.tigris.org/
  * m2eclipse (for Maven support, including the extras)
    * http://m2eclipse.sonatype.org/installing-m2eclipse.html

= Obtain and Build the Source Code =

 * Configure Maven
  * Edit the settings.xml (in ~/.m2 on my machine) and add two servers with the id ssg4e.internal and ssg4e.snapshot
{{{
<server>
	<id>serverid</id>
	<username>your-techideas-username</username>
	<pasword>your-techideas-password</password>
</server>
}}}
  * A sample settings.xml file is available from the Downloads section of this site.
  * Note: Eventually we will get rid of this dependency.

 * Using the SVN Repository Browser in Eclipse, add the Google SVN URL to your list of SVN repositories:
   * https://snee.googlecode.com/svn/trunk
   * (this is accessed using your google username and password)
   * Right-click on snee folder, and select ‘Check out as Maven Project’.  Follow the steps. 
   * This will result in a project named 'compiler', a module, and a parent project called 'SNEE', in the workspace.  Eventually we will have other modules like core-api, datasource, evaluator and metadata there. 
   * (Unfortunately, it is not possible to change the name of the project due to maven; the workaround is to have multiple workspaces in Eclipse)

 * Eclipse, right-click pom.xml, Run As mvn package

 * Right click on the compiler module project, go to the maven context menu, select ‘update project configuration’.